---
title: "Public Project Meeting - October 08, 2020"
linkTitle: "TLC - October 08, 2020"
date: 2020-10-08
---


Continuing the series of bi-weekly public project meetings, here is the
timeline of the meeting held on October 08, 2020 (times are on IST). 

Meetings are held on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://seleniumhq.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtODAwOTUzOTM5OTEwLTZjZjgzN2ExOTBmZGE0NjkwYzA2Nzc0MjczMGYwYjdiNGQ5YjI0ZjdjYjFhMjVlMjFkZWJmNDYyMmU1OTYyM2Y).

The next meeting will be on October 22, 2020,5:30 PM CET.

---   

_Diego Molina  9:03 PM_

Perhaps the main topics to discuss are these ones:
Anything new to report from the last PLC/SFC call?
Pending work that needs to be done for Alpha 7?

_9:03_

anything else that we need to talk about?

_Simon Stewart  9:04 PM_

Also paging @mmerrell and @manoj9788

_9:05_

Not much to share from the PLC call this week

_9:05_

Tentative thoughts about where we might be 
able to host SeConf next year, and puzzling 
out whether we can meet in person

_Marcus Merrell  9:05 PM_

here now

_Simon Stewart  9:06 PM_

@mmerrell can give more of an update 


_Marcus Merrell  9:06 PM_

if I understand it correctly, we have ~$40,000 tied up with 
the Chicago venue, and it would be the path of least resistance to hold it there

_9:08_

we'll start meeting around the first of November 
to start planning something there... I'd much rather 
hold it in the EU, but with the loss of White October, 
we'd need to a) find an organizing entity, and 
b) be prepared to pay ~double what we paid WOE, and only 
have a conference of half the size (i.e. we'd likely lose $$). 
We'll need to decide whether or not it'd be worth it

_Diego Molina  9:12 PM_

if we plan ahead of time, and things are ok in 
terms of covid, it can happen in the EU, we have contacts here. 
We could ask orgs that have conferences like Agile Testing Days to give us a hand. 
Just throwing ideas here.

_9:13_

Or the folks at MoT

_9:13_

Next topic?

_Simon Stewart  9:14 PM_

Sure

_9:14_
Alpha 7 talk?

_Diego Molina  9:14 PM_

Yes

_Simon Stewart  9:15 PM_

@jimevans is working on the CDP stuff for .Net

_9:15_

I’m busy implementing some of the nice features we’ve wanted for a while 
(including things like script pinning)

_9:15_

I know that @AutomatedTester has mostly wrangled Python into shape with the CDP stuff

_Diego Molina  9:15 PM_

We have the PRs for the queue, which I reviewed but it’d be nice if you have a look again, Simon

_9:16_

(grid)

_Simon Stewart  9:16 PM_

But I don’t know if it supports multiple versions

_9:16_

I can have a look at them tomorrow

_Diego Molina  9:16 PM_

Specially 8754, not sure about using two concurrent arrays there

_9:17_

Aside from what you mentioned, and the PRs for the queue, I think we are good for Alpha 7

_Simon Stewart  9:18 PM_

Aye

_Diego Molina  9:19 PM_

sooo, I think we are done with the meeting?

_Simon Stewart  9:27 PM_

I think so

_9:27_

Unless there’s anything else people want to talk about
?

_Diego Molina  9:36 PM_

Doesn’t seem like that
Thank you everyone!
