---
title: "Joint Leadership Meeting - March 31, 2023"
linkTitle: "Leadership - March 31, 2023"
date: 2023-03-31
---

In conjunction with the Selenium Conference, we had an in-person meeting of the Selenium Leadership Team (both
Technical and Project Leadership Committees).

### Participation

People present included:
* [Alex Rodionov](p0deje)
* [Bill McGee](testbot206)
* [Corina Pip](iamalittletester)
* [Daniel Pono Takamori](pono)
* [David Burns](AutomatedTester)
* [Diego Molina](diemol)
* [Maaret Pyhäjärvi](maaretp)
* [Manoj Kumar](manoj9788)
* [Marcus Merrell](mmerrell)
* [Simon Stewart](shs96c)
* [Sri Harsha](harsha509)
* [Titus Fortner](titusfortner)

## Agenda

* Define a sustainable way of collaborating between TLC/PLC/SFC
  * Possibility for a TLC seat on the PLC to better integrate groups 
  * Schedule for regular meetings
* Ideas for our current budget
  * List of proposed ideas
* Collaboration / integration with Appium
* Define 'roles' for PLC (e.g., development, outreach, community, events, documentation, marketing)
* Pushing the ambassador program forward
* Marketing and promotion 
  * Supporting ecosystem projects
* Conduct virtual fix a bug workshops
  * Train trainers

***

### Collaboration

* Proposed that PLC to have a meeting structure similar to TLC, with public monthly meetings, including an
editable rolling agenda and published minutes.
* Discussed what things need to be private to PLC — legal, financial, membership related
* Suggested that transparency isn't the problem so much as lack of time and focus
* Noted that there is currently no overlap between the TLC and PLC, and proposed the TLC should choose a representative to PLC.
  * It was agreed in principle to have a TLC representative on the PLC for a set time, and not bound by the employer restrictions
* Proposed putting all documents and proposals in the same place
* Proposed using RFC process (didn't discuss details)
* Discussed using GitHub for collaboration; it was pointed out we have an existing (private) project for PLC work: https://github.com/orgs/SeleniumHQ/projects/3
* Discussed pros and cons of Slack meetings vs Video meetings
  * TLC Public Rolling Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/18InWY44S0C_ECkRkRo8GKictu8BEtsahRsFh17tmUR0/edit#
  * Meeting minutes published: https://www.selenium.dev/meetings/

### Budget

* Request for Google Cloud account still not approved
* Discussed how we want to track what we want to pay for (GitHub?)
* Proposed that PLC gives TLC a budget that TLC can choose how to spend it
* Discussed the need to figure out how to reimburse work that is being done outside of official leadership responsibilities
  * Concern is how to be fair and how to ensure that we can keep volunteers when some people are being paid
  * SFC will create a policy for this 
* Next step is to have a budget specific meeting

### Appium / Ecosystem Projects

* Discussed how Appium and Selenium relate to each other technically
  * Ideas for merging bindings — https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib_core/issues/429
* Discussed that Selenium might need to find ways to support Appium better
  * Appium does not have an iOS expert to ensure no future issues
  * Move to BiDi needs to be coordinated
* From technical standpoint using both Selenium and Appium has friction
* Discussed the need for improving communication and collaboration in dev process
* Discussed the wider concern of collaborating with all projects in ecosystem and ensuring their help
* Next step is for SFC to investigate legal options and limitations for supporting other projects.

Plan to discuss specifics of roles, community actions, marketing and training considerations in next meeting.

[p0deje]: https://github.com/p0deje/
[testbot206]: https://github.com/testbot206
[iamalittletester]: https://github.com/iamalittletester
[pono]: https://github.com/pono
[AutomatedTester]: https://github.com/AutomatedTester/
[diemol]: https://github.com/diemol/
[maaretp]: https://github.com/maaretp
[manoj9788]: https://github.com/manoj9788
[mmerrell]: https://github.com/mmerrell
[shs96c]: https://github.com/shs96c
[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
