---
title: "TLC Meeting - August 31, 2023"
linkTitle: "TLC - August 31, 2023"
date: 2023-08-31
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).
To add items to the agenda for the next meeting, please see our public [Rolling Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18InWY44S0C_ECkRkRo8GKictu8BEtsahRsFh17tmUR0/edit#)

The next meeting will be Thursday, September 14 at 0700 Pacific / 1000 Eastern / 1500 UK / 1930 India.

### Participation

* [titusfortner]
* [harsha509]
* [jimevans]

## Agenda

* Ticket Status
* CDP support
* CI Health
* Membership Updates
* Open items
* Proposals/Decisions
* Selenium 4.12.0
* Selenium 5
* Projects in Progress
* Backlog

***

### Ticket Status

* 169 open Issues; last meeting: 170
* 42 outstanding PRs; last meeting: 44

### CDP support

* v116 Early release 8/9; Full release 8/15; Planned Selenium 4.12
* v117 Early release 9/6; Fully release 9/12

### CI Health

* JS flaky test elementAccessibleName_test
* .NET failures with new code

### Membership Updates

None

### [Open items](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20new%20owner)

None

### Proposals/Decisions

[List of Needs-Decision Issues](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20decision)

Planned to discuss using Selenium Manager classes as light wrapper classes, but will wait for a later date with more
members.

### [4.12 Milestone](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/milestone/13) 

Getting this released is the immediate priority.
Discussed the .NET code updates that needed to be made.

### Selenium 5 Conversation

Discussed how we need to have a longer discussion about this once [pujagani] returns.

### Projects in Progress

Did not discuss during this meeting

### Backlog 

Did not discuss during this meeting

[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
[jimevans]: https://github.com/jimevans/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
