---
title: "TLC Meeting - September 28, 2023"
linkTitle: "TLC - September 28, 2023"
date: 2023-09-28
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).
To add items to the agenda for the next meeting, please see our public [Rolling Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18InWY44S0C_ECkRkRo8GKictu8BEtsahRsFh17tmUR0/edit#)

The next meeting will be Thursday, October 12 at 0700 Pacific / 1000 Eastern / 1500 UK / 1930 India.

### Participation

* [diemol]
* [harsha509]
* [pujagani]
* [titusfortner]

## Agenda

* Ticket Status
* CDP support
* CI Health
* Membership Updates
* Open items
* Proposals/Decisions
* Selenium 4.12.0
* Selenium 5
* Projects in Progress
* Backlog

***

### Ticket Status

* 190 open Issues; last meeting: 169
* 51 outstanding PRs; last meeting: 42

### CDP support

* v117 Released with 4.13
* v118 Early release Oct 4; Fully release Oct 10

Discussed whether we should log incompatible versions as Debug or Warning. Only makes
sense to do warnings if we get releases out on time, so if we can't, we should change.
Discussed that we need to implement more BiDi. Interesting chart for the progress
being made by Google & Mozilla: https://puppeteer.github.io/ispuppeteerwebdriverbidiready/

### CI Health

* .NET failures (turned out to be caching related)
* JS atom test looks related to Firefox change, investigating
* 

### Membership Updates

Nikolay Borisenko as a new contributor!

### [Open items](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20new%20owner)

None

### Proposals/Decisions

[List of Needs-Decision Issues](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20decision)

Discussed grid logging again, since client does not have ability to get any information about
the grid commands or the driver commands. Biggest issue is that there is no way to split out
logging for each session without a lot of effort, so agreed (again) not to do this.

### [4.14 Milestone](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/milestone/15) 

Discussed whether we wanted to release v118 in a patch release or with 4.14 or as patch releases, depending
on how much work we'd be able to do. Goal is 4.14

### Selenium 5 Conversation

Did not discuss during this meeting

### Projects in Progress

Did not discuss during this meeting

### Backlog 

Did not discuss during this meeting

[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
[jimevans]: https://github.com/jimevans/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
