---
title: "TLC Meeting - November 24, 2022"
linkTitle: "TLC - November 24, 2022"
date: 2022-11-24
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).

The next meeting will be Thursday, December 8 at 0700 Pacific / 1000 Eastern / 1500 UK / 1930 India.

### Participation

TLC members present included:
* [harsha509]
* [pujagani]
* [titusfortner]

## Agenda
* Ticket Status
* CDP support
* Membership Updates
* Proposals
* CI Health
* Selenium 4.7
* Projects Underway
* Backlog

***

### Ticket Status

* 101 open Issues; last meeting: 91
* 29 outstanding PRs; last meeting: 23

### CDP support

* v108 scheduled November 29

### Membership Updates

* No updates

### [Proposals/Decisions](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20decision)

* [Selenium Manager Beta/Dev](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11239) - 
It was agreed that the user should have to specify a non-production browser version in order for it to be used.
There was a brief discussion about what the bindings would need to do in order to support this in code.

* [Re-add logging endpoints to Grid](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10949) -
  It was agreed not to implement logging features at this time, but that an error
  shouldn't be thrown for a valid method asking about supported logs.

### CI Health

* Tests are green!
* Some flakiness in JS test before hook that needs to be investigated
* Related: [p0deje] has done a bunch of work on improving CI with hermetic Ruby & Python implementations,
Windows testing support in Ruby, and general caching improvements

### Selenium 4.7

[Milestone 4.7](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/milestone/8)

* [.NET 4.6 Support](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10466) - ([jimevans])
* [Compress Selenium Manager libraries](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11204)] ([titusfortner])
* [Selenium Manager Add Python Modules](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11234) ([symonk])
* [Selenium Manager Error Handling](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11301) ([harsha509], [symonk], [boni_gg], [nvborisenko], [titusfortner])
* [Fix libssl issues in Selenium Manager](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11291) ([boni_gg], [shs96c])

Discussed some Python bugs that will require a 4.6.1 release soon.

### Projects in Progress

* [BiDi API work](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dCd8Y2PYaR5mOGSmNTwllEHNmFqegfoGkP-TCKvPzSU/edit#) — [pujagani] — 
proposal can still use feedback, but [TamsilAmani] & [harsha509] are already working on this
* [Selenium Manager](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/blob/trunk/rust/README.md#roadmap) — [boni_gg] — Milestone 2 almost complete 
* [Bazel Remote Caching](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11306) — [p0deje] — Google Cloud storage and other services being investigated
* [Python Type Hints](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/9480) — [symonk] — still in progress
* [Implement JS with TypeScript](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10942) — [harsha509] — this is being put on hold in favor of BiDi work

Also discussed [TamsilAmani]'s work to better document Ruby testing with Bazel, and how it would
be nice to improve documentation in all the languages.

### Backlog

These items were referenced, but not discussed in detail:

* Add More support to CI (#11305)
* Add TouchActions API to Selenium (#10808)
* Add/fix Bazel support in .NET (#10465)
* Add .rbs files in Ruby (#10943)
* Comprehensive command logging across languages (#10944)
* Selenium + Appium consolidation
* Rewrite atoms in TypeScript
* Python Async Rewrite (Current plan is “doubling” the API)
* .NET Async Rewrite (Current plan is to deprecate Sync code)


[boni_gg]: https://twitter.com/boni_gg/
[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[jimevans]: https://github.com/jimevans/
[nvborisenko]: https://github.com/nvborisenko/
[p0deje]: https://github.com/p0deje/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
[shs96c]: https://github.com/shs96c/
[symonk]: http://github.com/symonk/
[TamsilAmani]: https://github.com/TamsilAmani/
[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
