---
title: "TLC Meeting - May 25, 2022"
linkTitle: "TLC - May 25, 2022"
date: 2022-05-25
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).

## Agenda
* Ticket Status 
  * 82 open Issues 
  * 26 outstanding PRs 
* CDP support
* Membership Updates
* PLC status update
* Github permission updates
* Selenium 4.2
* Selenium 4.3: Remove deprecations release
* SFC membership

***

### CDP support
Support for v102 updated in all bindings and released

### Membership Updates
No updates for this meeting

### PLC status update
* Chicago Conference status - Contract negotiations are underway with the Voca hotel in Chicago, CFP will be 
  announced after CFP for India closes.
* Conference Website - hasn't been updated since White October ran it; working on it

### Github permission updates
The [proposal] from previous meeting has been implemented.

### Selenium 4.2

Outstanding items before release:

* Deprecate JWP in Java/Grid (Log message, blog post)
  * Blog post is live - https://www.selenium.dev/blog/2022/legacy-protocol-support/
  * Deprecating message is shown in logs and when users set a non-W3C cap via `setCapability()`
* Scroll Wheel Support (example code in docs)
  * Some docs exist already https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/webdriver/actions_api/wheel/

### Selenium 4.3: Remove deprecations release
* Deprecating IE? (Edge only?)
* Remove deprecated JWP Python code
* All the Python typing and style updates
* Remove deprecated Java driver constructors (PR 10427)
* Remove Protocol conversion code from Java/Grid â€” what is the best way 
* What to do this to minimise issues for users?

### SFC membership
[diemol] mentioned the possibility of moving from SFC to the OpenJS foundation, there was no 
major discussion about it and the topic will be present for the next meeting.

[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
[diemol]: https://github.com/diemol/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[wcmcgee]: https://github.com/wcmcgee/
[symonk]: https://github.com/symonk
[proposal]: https://www.selenium.dev/meetings/2022/tlc-05-11/#github-permission-updates