---
title: "TLC Meeting - June 8, 2022"
linkTitle: "TLC - June 8, 2022"
date: 2022-06-08
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).

## Agenda
* Ticket Status 
  * 86 open Issues 
  * 30 outstanding PRs 
* CDP support
* Membership Updates
* PLC status update
* Selenium 4.3: Remove deprecations release
* Selenium 4.4 & Beyond
* SFC membership


***

### CDP support
Support for v103 should come with 4.3, estimated for June 22.

### Membership Updates
[symonk] to become a committer.

### PLC status update
* Chicago Conference status - Contract needs to be negotiated because it is too short to organise the event.
* Conference Website - hasn't been updated since White October ran it; working on it

### Selenium 4.3: Remove deprecations release
* Ideally to be released on June 22.
* Deprecating IE? (Edge only?) [10729]
  * Options:
    1. Do nothing
    2. Update bindings to force Edge by default
    3. Update IE Driver to only support Edge
  * For now, we won't make any changes and wait for user feedback and see if the option 2 is the indicated.
* Remove deprecated JWP Python code
* All the Python typing and style updates
* Remove deprecated Java driver constructors [PR-10427]
* Remove deprecated Actions API [PR-10215]
* Remove Protocol conversion code from Java/Grid â€” what is the best way?
* What to do this to minimise issues for users?
* Any input on additional Actions fixes [10724]
* W3C: false should throw an error (warning in Java) [10448]
  * Java will throw warnings for 4.3 and errors for 4.4

### Selenium 4.4 & Beyond

These topics were part of the agenda but were not discussed.

* Touch Actions API
* BiDi implementations
* Async implementations
* Driver management
* Java 11

### SFC membership
[diemol] mentioned the possibility of moving from SFC to the OpenJS foundation, there was no 
major discussion about it and the topic will be present for the next meeting.

[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
[diemol]: https://github.com/diemol/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[wcmcgee]: https://github.com/wcmcgee/
[symonk]: https://github.com/symonk
[proposal]: https://www.selenium.dev/meetings/2022/tlc-05-11/#github-permission-updates
[10729]: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10729
[PR-10427]: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/pull/10427
[PR-10215]: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/pull/10215
[10724]: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10724
[10448]: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10448